Farm 452a/ Leopards Hill Rd, PO Box 30796, Lusaka, Zambia.
Telephone:     0968-493432/ 0977-999002

Western Province Rangeland Restoration Project 
Overview
The Barotse Rangelands for Restoration Project (BR4RP) seeks to create lasting change and promote regenerative livelihoods in Zambia's Western Province. Spanning 1.2 million hectares, the project focuses on enhancing livestock production and sustainable rangeland management to restore ecosystems, boost biodiversity, and increase soil carbon storage. These efforts will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and strengthen the resilience of both landscapes and food systems to climate change.

Impact Highlights
a) Improve Cattle Production: Enhance cattle production and increase the value of livestock products in the region. By addressing key challenges in animal health, feeding, breeding, and market access, farmers can achieve higher productivity and better prices raising farmer incomes by an estimated $3.3 million each year.
b) Restore Degraded Rangelands: Restore degraded rangelands focusing on improving pasture quality, increase forage availability, and supports more productive and sustainable livestock systems. These improvements contribute to healthier ecosystems, reduced land degradation, and greater resilience to climate shocks, directly benefiting both farmers and the environment.
c) Carbon Sequestration: Over 34 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent could be sequestered over 40 years

Project Implementation Timeline









Letters of No- No-Objection
1. Barotse Royal Establishment Approval

2. MInistery Of Green Economy and Enviroment's approval 
3. Zambia Environmental Management Agency

4. Department of Forestry approval












5. Ministery of Livestock 


















Project Activities


Benefit Sharing Mechanism




The Project Area 
The project area includes Mongu, Limilunga, Nalolo, Senanaga and Sioma. 

Figure 1. A map showing the districts being considered for the project area. 
Project Objectives
1. Enhance Livelihoods and Food Security: Implement sustainable rangeland management practices to increase livestock productivity, improve food security and enhance income generation opportunities for communities in Western Province.

2. Promote Environmental Restoration and Conservation: Improve soil health, biodiversity conservation, and water retention through holistic rangeland management strategies that mitigate land degradation and enhance ecosystem services. We will employ the best available technology to ensure the environmental and social integrity of our project, increase efficiency, and maximize benefits. 


3. Strengthen Climate Resilience: Build community resilience to climate change impacts by implementing climate-smart agricultural approaches, such as livestock and crop integration, fodder development, water harvesting, agroforestry and fire management to reduce vulnerability to environmental shocks. Ensuring that opportunities for circular economies are leveraged to keep support and input costs low is paramount.

4. Foster Inclusive Economic Growth: Diversify income sources through development of sustainable value chains for forest and agricultural commodities, promote alternative livelihoods and foster economic empowerment among local communities.


Next Steps
No.ActivityTargetHouse Hold Orientation 1Social & Economic Survey for 1500hh1500 HH2Livestock Assessment for 12 kraals12 Kraals3Soil Assessment for 120 Samples120 Samples4Rangeland AssessmentN/A5Crop SurveyN/A6Biodiversity AssessmentN/A7District Level Rangeland Management PlanN/A[MOU1]Validation Workshop




[MOU1]Rather add the start and end dates 



 Mobile: +260 968 493432 or +260 977 999002 
   Email: renier@impuls.africa / carl@kyindu.com


